Spring is in the air and on those plates, and the new openings are coming like a bullet train. From Peking duck to all the pies, here's where hot for March...



For the buzziest opening of 2025 so far:

Lena, Portobello

Locks is dead. Long live Lena! While locals (and many more) might have shed a tear at the thought of Locks no longer residing at 1 Windsor Terrace, in reality it's just had a major glow up. Liz Matthews and Simon Barrett, the restaurateur icons behind Etto and Uno Mas, have joined chef/owner Paul McNamara (also a partner in Uno Mas) to bring us neighbourhood Italian Lena, and if you haven't had the sage leaf and anchovy fritti, lardo toast and Osso Bucco by the end of March, can you really call yourself a Dubliner...? Read our once over here.

For the return of one of Dublin's greats:

Assassination Custard, Dublin 8

After pulling the shutters down last summer (read about why in this great piece from the Irish Independent), Gwen McGrath and Ken Doherty's Assassination Custard is back - and this time you can book. There's still only around 10 seats, the menu's still written on a paper bag, and there are now two sittings at 12:00 and 13:30. They've also introduced a minimum spend of €25 - €30 to make it worth opening, but if you weren't already spending that you weren't doing it right (order it all). To book, call them on 0874701577.

For the best value lunch in town right now:

Coppinger, Dublin 2

We never fail to be impressed at those restaurateurs who innovate rather than capitulate, and what better way to get bums out of office chairs and into nicer ones than with a two course lunch for FIFTEEN EURO. IN A RESTAURANT. Or three courses for €20, with an optional glass of wine for an additional €5 (we don't endorse drinking on the job, but we don't not endorse it either). Coppinger are having to work smart with their "Menu del Dia" dishes, but we hear the chefs are loving the challenge, and the diners clearly love those prices. Available Wednesday - Friday, 12:00 - 15:00.

For the slickest new Asian experience in South Dublin:

China Tang, Monkstown

The group behind Hakkahan in Stoneybatter and Nan Chinese in the city centre have just opened a fine dining Cantonese restaurant in Monkstown, and the pre-order whole Peking duck, sliced and served by the chef at your table, is right at the top of our want list for March. China Tang (no relation to the one at The Dorchester in London) has a suppliers list that includes Silverhill Duck, Andarl Farm and FX Buckley, and the menu is full of Cantonese dishes we've never seen in Dublin before. Get us in there.

For pies to widen your eyes:

Cellar 22

Dublin has never been somewhere that had its pick of the pies, but Cellar 22 are on a mission to change that and become the city's prime pie destination. Their 'Cellar Pie' changes daily so there's always something new to try, and we're very keen to get in here for one of these and a glass of red while it's still chilly outside.

To save money on food and go bigger on wine:

Monty's of Kathmandu

Monty's of Kathmandu is best known for Momos (Nepalese dumplings), being a warm escape from tourists in Temple Bar, and for having a hell of a wine cellar. Their new set menu, running Thursday - Saturday at lunchtime, and all night Sunday - Thursday will let you dive even deeper into those bottles, with two courses for €32 or three for €37. Go for deconstructed samosa chat, and owner Lina's Achari chicken, and take your pick from that tome of a wine list, with margins well below the city's average.

For when you can't be bothered to leave the house but want something nice:

DropChef's collaboration with The Salt Project

DropChef, the Irish-owned meal kit delivery service, have enlisted The Salt Project's Caomhán de Brí for a special St. Patrick's Day collaboration. The chef, known for his hyper-local sourcing, has designed four new meal kits, available for delivery from the 16th March, all incorporating the best of Irish food, like an Irish Farmhouse cheese and onion tart; and pork fillet wrapped in bacon with Keeling's Black Apple Butter and Olly's Farm Hot Dublin Honey Glaze. Each kit comes with step-by-step instructions to cook and serve within 30 minutes, and it's the ideal delivery the next time you don't have the energy to flip through recipe books, but can't be arsed going out.